README.md, before:

# decidim_staging

Citizen Participation and Open Government application.

This is the open-source repository for decidim_staging, based on [Decidim](https://github.com/decidim/decidim). This app is used to preview the latest `staging` branch of Codegram's Decidim [fork](https://github.com/codegram/decidim/tree/staging).

## Review Apps

This application uses Heroku Review Apps to check new features individually and in isolation. In order to create a Review App:

1. `git checkout master`
1. `git pull origin master`
1. Move to your own branch: `git checkout -b my-branch-name`
1. Edit the `Gemfile` so that the `decidim` dependencies point to the branch you want to test out
1. `bundle update decidim decidim-initiatives decidim-dev decidim-conferences decidim-consultations decidim-elections`
1. `bundle exec rake decidim:upgrade db:migrate`
1. `git add --all && git commit -m "Update decidim"`
1. `git push origin my-branch-name`
1. Open a PR from `my-branch` to `master`. This will trigger a deploy of a new Review App. You can check it in the Heroku dashboard. Also, when the deployment is finished, it will appear in the PR in this repo.

## Updating the app
The app needs to be updated manually. Steps to update it:

1. Move to your own branch: `git checkout -b my-branch-name`
1. `bundle update decidim decidim-initiatives decidim-dev decidim-conferences decidim-consultations decidim-elections`
1. `bundle exec rake decidim:upgrade db:migrate`
1. `git add --all && git commit -m "Update decidim"`
1. `git push origin my-branch-name`

Remember to create a PR for your branch so that a Review App is created automatically.

## Reseeding the DB

If you need to re-seed the database:

1. Install the [Heroku CLI](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli#download-and-install)
1. Wait until the app has been successfully deployed
1. `heroku pg:reset --app decidim-staging-pr-<your PR ID>`
1. `heroku run rails db:migrate --app decidim-staging-pr-<your PR ID>`
1. `heroku run rails db:seed --app decidim-staging-pr-<your PR ID>`

## Recreating the whole DB

If you need to recreate the whole database (to remove or fix migrations):

1. `rm db/schema.rb`
1. `rm db/migrate/*`
1. `rbenv exec bundle exec rake db:reset`
1. `rbenv exec bundle exec rake decidim:upgrade`
1. `rbenv exec bundle exec rake db:migrate`
1. `heroku pg:reset -a decidim-staging-pr-<your PR ID>`
1. Push your changes to the `decidim-staging` repository
1. Wait until the app has been successfully deployed
1. `heroku run rails db:seed -a decidim-staging-pr-<your PR ID>`

Commit message:

update README how to use actions to create review apps

README.md, after:

# decidim_staging

Citizen Participation and Open Government application.

This is the open-source repository for decidim_staging, based on [Decidim](https://github.com/decidim/decidim). This app is used to preview the latest `staging` branch of Codegram's Decidim [fork](https://github.com/codegram/decidim/tree/staging).

## Review Apps

This application uses Heroku Review Apps to check new features individually and in isolation. In order to create a Review App:

1. Go to the [Actions](https://github.com/codegram/decidim-staging/actions) tab
2. Select **Review app creator** and click on **Run workflow** button
3. Fill in the **Decidim branch name** with the name of your feature branch
4. Optional: add the Decidim issue number
5. Click **Run workflow** (This will trigger a deploy of a new Review App. You can check it in the Heroku dashboard. Also, when the deployment is finished, it will appear in the PR in this repo.)
6. When the feature is reviewed close the PR (DO NOT MERGE IT!)

## Updating the app
You can update the app in the same way as you create it. Just fill in the form again with the necessary data.

## Reseeding the DB

If you need to re-seed the database:

1. Install the [Heroku CLI](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli#download-and-install)
1. Wait until the app has been successfully deployed
1. `heroku pg:reset --app decidim-staging-pr-<your PR ID>`
1. `heroku run rails db:migrate --app decidim-staging-pr-<your PR ID>`
1. `heroku run rails db:seed --app decidim-staging-pr-<your PR ID>`

## Recreating the whole DB

If you need to recreate the whole database (to remove or fix migrations):

1. `rm db/schema.rb`
1. `rm db/migrate/*`
1. `rbenv exec bundle exec rake db:reset`
1. `rbenv exec bundle exec rake decidim:upgrade`
1. `rbenv exec bundle exec rake db:migrate`
1. `heroku pg:reset -a decidim-staging-pr-<your PR ID>`
1. Push your changes to the `decidim-staging` repository
1. Wait until the app has been successfully deployed
1. `heroku run rails db:seed -a decidim-staging-pr-<your PR ID>`
